README.md, before:

# Dataset of 17th century Dutch Painters
## Webscraped from Wikipedia and Wikidata

The data contains wikipedia articles from over 400 Dutch 17th century painters, and metadata about their year of birth, year of death, place of birth, place of death, gender and their wikidata identifiers.

Possible uses for this dataset could be finding which cities birthed renowned Dutch painters. Other kinds of analysis can be done by looking at gender, birth years, or locations. Another possibility could be reconciling geographical data for the birth and death places and making geographical visual representations.

Textual analysis or NLP methods can also be performed on the Wikipedia articles in this dataset.

## 1. Data Collection

The data in this dataset has been scraped from both [Wikipedia](wikipedia.org) and [Wikidata](wikidata.org).
Wikipedia

The [Wikimedia Foundation Terms of Use](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Policy%3ATerms_of_Use) state that:

"You are free to:

- Read and Print our articles and other media free of charge.
- Share and Reuse our articles and other media under free and open licenses.
- Contribute To and Edit our various websites or Projects."

This dataset, including wikipedia articles and metadata about 17th century Dutch painters, is therefore published with no rights reserved.

The source code of the webscraping can be found in the webscraper.ipynb file in this repo. Please note that I have included json files that can be used so you don't have to perform the https requests for the 'links' and the 'wikidata_links' variables, which take several minutes to complete. Within the Jupyter Notebook, there is code that imports these json files back into Python variables which can be used to perform the rest of the code. (These json files have been created on December 4th 2025)

### 1.1 Text Cleaning

The citations (like [1] and [3]) have been removed from the strings that contain the Wikipedia articles. Please note that no further preprocessing steps have been performed (lowercasing, punctuation removal).

## 2. Metadata

The main dataset can be found in the following file:
#### cleaned_data.csv

| Columns         | Description     |
|-----------------|-----------------|
| Name|Name of the painter (from wikidata) |
| Wikidata Identifier| Qnumber of the painter's wikidata item|
| Wikipedia Article|Article collected from Wikipedia about the painter, citations removed|
| Gender |Gender of the painter (from wikidata)|
| Year of Birth| Birthyear of the painter (from wikidata)|
| Year of Death| Deathyear of the painter (from wikidata)|
| Place of Birth|Place of birth of painter (from wikidata)|
| Place of Death|Place of death of painter (from wikidata)|
| Birth Coordinates |Birthplace coordinates (from OpenStreetMaps)|
| Death Coordinates|Deathplace coordinates (from OpenStreetMaps)|
## 3. Analysis

A geographical analysis of the data can be found the folium_analysis notebook.

Preview of the places of death count of painters:
<img src="preview.png"></img>

Commit message:

Update README with interactive maps information
Added information about interactive maps in the repository.

README.md, after:

# Dataset of 17th century Dutch Painters
## Webscraped from Wikipedia and Wikidata

The data contains wikipedia articles from over 400 Dutch 17th century painters, and metadata about their year of birth, year of death, place of birth, place of death, gender and their wikidata identifiers.

Possible uses for this dataset could be finding which cities birthed renowned Dutch painters. Other kinds of analysis can be done by looking at gender, birth years, or locations. Another possibility could be reconciling geographical data for the birth and death places and making geographical visual representations.

Textual analysis or NLP methods can also be performed on the Wikipedia articles in this dataset.

## 1. Data Collection

The data in this dataset has been scraped from both [Wikipedia](wikipedia.org) and [Wikidata](wikidata.org).
Wikipedia

The [Wikimedia Foundation Terms of Use](https://foundation.wikimedia.org/wiki/Policy%3ATerms_of_Use) state that:

"You are free to:

- Read and Print our articles and other media free of charge.
- Share and Reuse our articles and other media under free and open licenses.
- Contribute To and Edit our various websites or Projects."

This dataset, including wikipedia articles and metadata about 17th century Dutch painters, is therefore published with no rights reserved.

The source code of the webscraping can be found in the webscraper.ipynb file in this repo. Please note that I have included json files that can be used so you don't have to perform the https requests for the 'links' and the 'wikidata_links' variables, which take several minutes to complete. Within the Jupyter Notebook, there is code that imports these json files back into Python variables which can be used to perform the rest of the code. (These json files have been created on December 4th 2025)

### 1.1 Text Cleaning

The citations (like [1] and [3]) have been removed from the strings that contain the Wikipedia articles. Please note that no further preprocessing steps have been performed (lowercasing, punctuation removal).

## 2. Metadata

The main dataset can be found in the following file:
#### cleaned_data.csv

| Columns         | Description     |
|-----------------|-----------------|
| Name|Name of the painter (from wikidata) |
| Wikidata Identifier| Qnumber of the painter's wikidata item|
| Wikipedia Article|Article collected from Wikipedia about the painter, citations removed|
| Gender |Gender of the painter (from wikidata)|
| Year of Birth| Birthyear of the painter (from wikidata)|
| Year of Death| Deathyear of the painter (from wikidata)|
| Place of Birth|Place of birth of painter (from wikidata)|
| Place of Death|Place of death of painter (from wikidata)|
| Birth Coordinates |Birthplace coordinates (from OpenStreetMaps)|
| Death Coordinates|Deathplace coordinates (from OpenStreetMaps)|
## 3. Analysis

A geographical analysis of the data can be found the folium_analysis notebook.
The interactive maps are also available as html files in this repo.

Preview of the places of death count of painters:
<img src="preview.png"></img>
